NAME
       sudo, sudoedit — execute a command as another user

SYNOPSIS
       sudo -h | -K | -k | -V
       sudo -v [-ABkNnS] [-g group] [-h host] [-p prompt] [-u user]
       sudo -l [-ABkNnS] [-g group] [-h host] [-p prompt] [-U user] [-u user] [command [arg ...]]
       sudo  [-ABbEHnPS]  [-C  num] [-D directory] [-g group] [-h host] [-p prompt] [-R directory] [-r role] [-t type] [-T timeout] [-u user] [VAR=value] [-i | -s]
            [command [arg ...]]
       sudoedit [-ABkNnS] [-C num] [-D directory] [-g group] [-h host] [-p prompt] [-R directory] [-r role] [-t type] [-T timeout] [-u user] file ...

DESCRIPTION
       sudo allows a permitted user to execute a command as the superuser or another user, as specified by the security policy.   The  invoking  user's  real  (not
       effective) user-ID is used to determine the user name with which to query the security policy.

       sudo  supports  a plugin architecture for security policies, auditing, and input/output logging.  Third parties can develop and distribute their own plugins
       to work seamlessly with the sudo front-end.  The default security policy is sudoers, which is configured via the file /etc/sudoers, or via  LDAP.   See  the
       “Plugins” section for more information.

       The  security  policy determines what privileges, if any, a user has to run sudo.  The policy may require that users authenticate themselves with a password
       or another authentication mechanism.  If authentication is required, sudo will exit if the user's password is not entered within a configurable time  limit.
       This limit is policy-specific; the default password prompt timeout for the sudoers security policy is 0 minutes.

       Security policies may support credential caching to allow the user to run sudo again for a period of time without requiring authentication.  By default, the
       sudoers  policy  caches credentials on a per-terminal basis for 15 minutes.  See the timestamp_type and timestamp_timeout options in sudoers(5) for more in‐
       formation.  By running sudo with the -v option, a user can update the cached credentials without running a command.

       On systems where sudo is the primary method of gaining superuser privileges, it is imperative to avoid syntax errors in the  security  policy  configuration
       files.  For the default security policy, sudoers(5), changes to the configuration files should be made using the visudo(8) utility which will ensure that no
       syntax errors are introduced.

       When invoked as sudoedit, the -e option (described below), is implied.

       Security  policies  and  audit  plugins may log successful and failed attempts to run sudo.  If an I/O plugin is configured, the running command's input and
       output may be logged as well.

       The options are as follows:

       -A, --askpass
               Normally, if sudo requires a password, it will read it from the user's terminal.  If the -A (askpass) option is specified,  a  (possibly  graphical)
               helper  program is executed to read the user's password and output the password to the standard output.  If the SUDO_ASKPASS environment variable is
               set, it specifies the path to the helper program.  Otherwise, if sudo.conf(5) contains a line specifying the askpass program,  that  value  will  be
               used.  For example:

                   # Path to askpass helper program
                   Path askpass /usr/X11R6/bin/ssh-askpass

               If no askpass program is available, sudo will exit with an error.

       -B, --bell
               Ring the bell as part of the password prompt when a terminal is present.  This option has no effect if an askpass program is used.

       -b, --background
               Run  the given command in the background.  It is not possible to use shell job control to manipulate background processes started by sudo.  Most in‐
               teractive commands will fail to work properly in background mode.

       -C num, --close-from=num
               Close all file descriptors greater than or equal to num before executing a command.  Values less than three are not  permitted.   By  default,  sudo
               will  close  all open file descriptors other than standard input, standard output, and standard error when executing a command.  The security policy
               may restrict the user's ability to use this option.  The sudoers policy only permits use of the -C option when the  administrator  has  enabled  the
               closefrom_override option.

       -D directory, --chdir=directory
               Run  the  command in the specified directory instead of the current working directory.  The security policy may return an error if the user does not
               have permission to specify the working directory.

       -E, --preserve-env
               Indicates to the security policy that the user wishes to preserve their existing environment variables.  The security policy may return an error  if
               the user does not have permission to preserve the environment.

       --preserve-env=list
               Indicates  to  the  security policy that the user wishes to add the comma-separated list of environment variables to those preserved from the user's
               environment.  The security policy may return an error if the user does not have permission to preserve the environment.  This option may  be  speci‐
               fied multiple times.

       -e, --edit
               Edit one or more files instead of running a command.  In lieu of a path name, the string "sudoedit" is used when consulting the security policy.  If
               the user is authorized by the policy, the following steps are taken:

               1.   Temporary copies are made of the files to be edited with the owner set to the invoking user.

               2.   The  editor specified by the policy is run to edit the temporary files.  The sudoers policy uses the SUDO_EDITOR, VISUAL and EDITOR environment
                    variables (in that order).  If none of SUDO_EDITOR, VISUAL or EDITOR are set, the first program listed in the editor sudoers(5) option is used.

               3.   If they have been modified, the temporary files are copied back to their original location and the temporary versions are removed.

               To help prevent the editing of unauthorized files, the following restrictions are enforced unless explicitly allowed by the security policy:

                •  Symbolic links may not be edited (version 1.8.15 and higher).

                •  Symbolic links along the path to be edited are not followed when the parent directory is writable by the invoking user unless that user is  root
                   (version 1.8.16 and higher).

                •  Files located in a directory that is writable by the invoking user may not be edited unless that user is root (version 1.8.16 and higher).

               Users are never allowed to edit device special files.

               If  the specified file does not exist, it will be created.  Unlike most commands run by sudo, the editor is run with the invoking user's environment
               unmodified.  If the temporary file becomes empty after editing, the user will be prompted before it is installed.  If, for some reason, sudo is  un‐
               able to update a file with its edited version, the user will receive a warning and the edited copy will remain in a temporary file.

       -g group, --group=group
               Run  the command with the primary group set to group instead of the primary group specified by the target user's password database entry.  The group
               may be either a group name or a numeric group-ID (GID) prefixed with the ‘#’ character (e.g., ‘#0’ for GID 0).  When running a  command  as  a  GID,
               many shells require that the ‘#’ be escaped with a backslash (‘\’).  If no -u option is specified, the command will be run as the invoking user.  In
               either  case,  the primary group will be set to group.  The sudoers policy permits any of the target user's groups to be specified via the -g option
               as long as the -P option is not in use.

       -H, --set-home
               Request that the security policy set the HOME environment variable to the home directory specified by the target  user's  password  database  entry.
               Depending on the policy, this may be the default behavior.

       -h, --help
               Display a short help message to the standard output and exit.

       -h host, --host=host
               Run  the command on the specified host if the security policy plugin supports remote commands. The sudoers plugin does not currently support running
               remote commands. This may also be used in conjunction with the -l option to list a user's privileges for the remote host.

       -i, --login
               Run the shell specified by the target user's password database entry as a login shell.  This  means  that  login-specific  resource  files  such  as
               .profile, .bash_profile, or .login will be read by the shell.  If a command is specified, it is passed to the shell as a simple command using the -c
               option.   The  command  and  any  args are concatenated, separated by spaces, after escaping each character (including white space) with a backslash
               (‘\’) except for alphanumerics, underscores, hyphens, and dollar signs.  If no command is specified, an interactive shell  is  executed.   sudo  at‐
               tempts to change to that user's home directory before running the shell.  The command is run with an environment similar to the one a user would re‐
               ceive  at  log in.  Most shells behave differently when a command is specified as compared to an interactive session; consult the shell's manual for
               details.  The Command environment section in the sudoers(5) manual documents how the -i option affects the environment in which  a  command  is  run
               when the sudoers policy is in use.

       -K, --remove-timestamp
               Similar  to  the  -k option, except that it removes every cached credential for the user, regardless of the terminal or parent process ID.  The next
               time sudo is run, a password must be entered if the security policy requires authentication.  It is not possible to use the -K option in conjunction
               with a command or other option.  This option does not require a password.  Not all security policies support credential caching.

       -k, --reset-timestamp
               When used without a command, invalidates the user's cached credentials for the current session.  The next time sudo is run in the session,  a  pass‐
               word  must be entered if the security policy requires authentication.  By default, the sudoers policy uses a separate record in the credential cache
               for each terminal (or parent process ID if no terminal is present).  This prevents the -k option from interfering with sudo commands run in  a  dif‐
               ferent  terminal session.  See the timestamp_type option in sudoers(5) for more information.  This option does not require a password, and was added
               to allow a user to revoke sudo permissions from a .logout file.

               When used in conjunction with a command or an option that may require a password, this option will cause sudo to ignore the  user's  cached  creden‐
               tials.  As a result, sudo will prompt for a password (if one is required by the security policy) and will not update the user's cached credentials.

               Not all security policies support credential caching.

       -l, --list
               If  no  command is specified, list the privileges for the invoking user (or the user specified by the -U option) on the current host.  A longer list
               format is used if this option is specified multiple times and the security policy supports a verbose output format.

               If a command is specified and is permitted by the security policy for the invoking user (or the, user specified by the -U  option)  on  the  current
               host,  the fully-qualified path to the command is displayed along with any args. If -l is specified more than once (and the security policy supports
               it), the matching rule is displayed in a verbose format along with the command.  If a command is specified but not allowed by the policy, sudo  will
               exit with a status value of 1.

       -N, --no-update
               Do  not update the user's cached credentials, even if the user successfully authenticates.  Unlike the -k flag, existing cached credentials are used
               if they are valid.  To detect when the user's cached credentials are valid (or when no authentication is required), the following can be used:

                   sudo -Nnv

               Not all security policies support credential caching.

       -n, --non-interactive
               Avoid prompting the user for input of any kind.  If a password is required for the command to run, sudo will display an error message and exit.

       -P, --preserve-groups
               Preserve the invoking user's group vector unaltered.  By default, the sudoers policy will initialize the group vector to the list of groups the tar‐
               get user is a member of.  The real and effective group-IDs, however, are still set to match the target user.

       -p prompt, --prompt=prompt
               Use a custom password prompt with optional escape sequences.  The following percent (‘%’) escape sequences are supported by the sudoers policy:

               %H  expanded to the host name including the domain name (only if the machine's host name is fully qualified or the fqdn option is set in sudoers(5))

               %h  expanded to the local host name without the domain name

               %p  expanded to the name of the user whose password is being requested (respects the rootpw, targetpw, and runaspw flags in sudoers(5))

               %U  expanded to the login name of the user the command will be run as (defaults to root unless the -u option is also specified)

               %u  expanded to the invoking user's login name

               %%  two consecutive ‘%’ characters are collapsed into a single ‘%’ character

               The custom prompt will override the default prompt specified by either the security policy or the SUDO_PROMPT environment variable.  On systems that
               use PAM, the custom prompt will also override the prompt specified by a PAM module unless the passprompt_override flag is disabled in sudoers.

       -R directory, --chroot=directory
               Change to the specified root directory (see chroot(8)) before running the command.  The security policy may return an error if  the  user  does  not
               have permission to specify the root directory.

       -r role, --role=role
               Run the command with an SELinux security context that includes the specified role.

       -S, --stdin
               Write the prompt to the standard error and read the password from the standard input instead of using the terminal device.

       -s, --shell
               Run  the shell specified by the SHELL environment variable if it is set or the shell specified by the invoking user's password database entry.  If a
               command is specified, it is passed to the shell as a simple command using the -c option.  The command and any args are  concatenated,  separated  by
               spaces,  after  escaping  each  character  (including white space) with a backslash (‘\’) except for alphanumerics, underscores, hyphens, and dollar
               signs.  If no command is specified, an interactive shell is executed.  Most shells behave differently when a command is specified as compared to  an
               interactive session; consult the shell's manual for details.

       -t type, --type=type
               Run  the  command  with an SELinux security context that includes the specified type.  If no type is specified, the default type is derived from the
               role.

       -U user, --other-user=user
               Used in conjunction with the -l option to list the privileges for user instead of for the invoking user.  The security policy may  restrict  listing
               other  users' privileges.  When using the sudoers policy, the -U option is restricted to the root user and users with either the “list” priviege for
               the specified user or the ability to run any command as root or user on the current host.

       -T timeout, --command-timeout=timeout
               Used to set a timeout for the command.  If the timeout expires before the command has exited, the command will be terminated.  The  security  policy
               may restrict the user's ability to set timeouts.  The sudoers policy requires that user-specified timeouts be explicitly enabled.

       -u user, --user=user
               Run the command as a user other than the default target user (usually root).  The user may be either a user name or a numeric user-ID (UID) prefixed
               with  the ‘#’ character (e.g., ‘#0’ for UID 0).  When running commands as a UID, many shells require that the ‘#’ be escaped with a backslash (‘\’).
               Some security policies may restrict UIDs to those listed in the password database.  The sudoers policy allows UIDs that  are  not  in  the  password
               database as long as the targetpw option is not set.  Other security policies may not support this.

       -V, --version
               Print  the  sudo  version  string as well as the version string of any configured plugins.  If the invoking user is already root, the -V option will
               display the options passed to configure when sudo was built; plugins may display additional information such as default options.

       -v, --validate
               Update the user's cached credentials, authenticating the user if necessary.  For the sudoers plugin, this extends the sudo timeout  for  another  15
               minutes by default, but does not run a command.  Not all security policies support cached credentials.
